---
title: "Concepts"
linkTitle: "Concepts"
weight: 22
description: >
  A number of concepts that are helpful to understand when using ready4.
---

## Computational Modelling Project
In the context we use it, a computational modelling project involves the three steps of:

- Developing a *model*;

- Adding context-specific *data* to that computational model; and

- applying the computational model to the supplied data to undertake *analyses*.

## Model
By "model", we mean a simplified representation of a system of interest. We also mean that a model is:

- abstract and general (i.e. largely free of data that is assumption- or context- specific) and
- an analytic tool, not an analysis (i.e. a model can be used to help undertake an analysis, it is not the analysis itself).

If a model is developed primarily to inform a decision or set of decisions (e.g. relating to youth mental health policy and system design) it can be called a *decision model*. 

Ideally, a model should have three inter-related representations - *conceptual*, *mathematical* and *computational*. 
 
### Conceptual Model
A conceptual model refers to underlying theory and beliefs about a system of interest that can be described in words and pictures.

### Mathematical Model
A mathematical model formalises a conceptual model as a set of equations.

### Computational Model
A computational model implements the conceptual and mathematical models of a system of interest as computer code. ready4 is specifically concerned with providing tools to aid the development and use of computational models.

## Data
When we refer to data we typically mean digitally stored information, principally relating to model parameter values, that can be added to a computational model to tailor it to a specific decision context (e.g. a particular population / jurisdiction / service / intervention) and set of underpinning beliefs (e.g. preferred evidence sources).

## Analyses
When we refer to analyses, we typically mean the application of a computational model to a specified set of input data to generate insight. Our use of the term application can encompass:

- the reproduction or replication programs that configure models and apply them to specified data; and
- the outputs generated by implementing a model reproduction or replication program, including but not limited to analysis reports.

## Computational Modelling Guidelines
ready4 has been developed to implement a set of good practice guidelines for open source health economic models. We are describing these guidelines, their rationale and how ready4 implements them, in a manuscript being prepared for publication. When it is publicly available we will provide a link in an updated version of this page.



